---
layout: post
title: Zachary Kamel's Twitter account censored
date: 2019-12-17T05:00:00.000Z
permalink: '/:categories/:year/:i_month/:i_day/:slug'
---
On November 20, freelance journalist Zachary Kamel's Twitter account, [@ZacharyKamel](https://twitter.com/zacharykamel), was locked for a post they made back in June. The [post thread](http://archive.is/BBOkP) identified a handful of anonymous accounts, which had been harassing journalists and activists, as being run by Michael Ber. Kamel posted images of Ber, sourced from Ber's own Instagram and Twitter accounts.<br><br>
Months later, Twitter locked Kamel's account, citing Canadian privacy laws about publishing media of an individual. This is not only a misinterpretation of those laws, but also has a chilling effect on journalists who report on the far-right. Kamel has waited over a month for Twitter to review their appeal and the account is still suspended.<br><br>
During this time, the [@IWWFJU](https://twitter.com/iwwfju) tweeted support of Kamel and brought awareness to the ongoing issue of Twitter's imbalanced application of its Terms of Service — leaving many users vulnerable to online hate speech and threats, while punishing those who attempt to speak out against harassment. In its tweet, the FJU linked to [an archive](http://archive.is/BBOkP) that showed the original Twitter post that @ZacharyKamel had their account locked over.<br><br>
Though the archive was hosted off Twitter, Twitter suspended the @IWWFJU account, citing the same Canadian privacy laws, and required deletion of the post before reinstatement. As previously happened in [Elizabeth King's]({{ site.baseurl }}/statements/2019/11/15/king) account ban ruling, Twitter is using its prior rulings to railroad certain judgements, despite new circumstances and a lack of finality on the appeals of those rulings. This is lazy enforcement and allows bad rulings to compound on an issue without any additional effort by Twitter.<br><br>
We encourage supporters to [share](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=.%40Twitter+and+%40TwitterSupport+shouldn’t+prevent+journalists+from+reporting+on+the+far+right.+Reinstate+%40ZacharyKamel%21+See+https%3A%2F%2Ffreelancejournalistsunion.org%2Fstatements%2F2019%2F12%2F17%2Fkamel+to+learn+more.&related=iwwfju) – .@Twitter and @TwitterSupport shouldn’t prevent journalists from reporting on the far right. Reinstate @ZacharyKamel! See [freelancejournalistsunion.org/statements/2019/12/17/kamel](https://freelancejournalistsunion.org/statements/2019/12/17/kamel) to learn more.
